---
layout: default
title: "Jekyll: static websites generator"
tag: jekyll
---

## {{ page.title }}

I've been using for this site development.

Jekyll is the engine for static sites on the base of GitHub Pages. GH Pages technology allows browsing static sites on domain \*.github.io.

I want to describe general aspects of working with it. Next, I give examples of commands used on Debian-based operational systems.

##### Installation

Let's make ruby-dev is installed:

<pre><code>my@my-pc:~$ dpkg -l ruby-dev
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Inst/Conf-files/Unpacked/halF-conf/Half-inst/trig-aWait/Trig-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Reinst-required (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version      Architecture Description
+++-==============-============-============-==================================
ii  ruby-dev       1:1.9.3.4    all          Header files for compiling extensi
</code></pre>

If not - we need install ruby-dev package:

<pre><code>my@my-pc:~$ sudo apt-get install ruby-dev
</code></pre>

Now we are ready to install jekyll:

<pre><code>my@my-pc:~$ sudo gem install jekyll
</code></pre>

Next, create directory for new site and run it:

<pre><code>my@my-pc:~$ jekyll new new_site
my@my-pc:~$ cd new_site
my@my-pc:~/new_site$ jekyll serve
</code></pre>

Now site is available for browsing on address localhost:4000 (by default).

##### Configuration

You can change configuration after creation file \_config.yml at the root of th project.

<pre><code>my@my-pc:~/new_site$ touch _config.yml
</code></pre>

Config example:

<pre><code>name: ""
description: ""

url: "[YOUR DOMAIN]"

paginate: 10

markdown: rdiscount
permalink: pretty
pygments: true
</code></pre>

Settings in details <a href="http://jekyllrb.com/docs/configuration/">here</a>.

##### Directories structure

Documentation <a href="http://jekyllrb.com/docs/structure/">Here</a>.

##### Styles

Let's create css-file in separate directory. <a href="http://github.com/render1980/render1980.github.io/blob/master/stylesheets/stylesheet.css">Example</a>.

For this site I use simple design, which must accent attention on information component.

##### Main page

Example <a href="http://github.com/render1980/render1980.github.io/blob/master/index.html">Here</a>.

On index.html main place is reserved for block, which displays links to posts. When linking, we can see contents of the post.

##### Template

Templates are in directory \_layouts. Example of the simple template, which used for all pages of the site you can see <a href="https://github.com/render1980/render1980.github.io/blob/master/_layouts/default.html">here</a>.

##### Posts

Posts must be in directory \_posts. Each post - separate file which named in accordance with format 'yyyy-mm-dd-[name].md'. Jekyll read each file in \_posts and on the base of it generate html page [name].html in directory \_site with hierarchical structure accordingly to specified date.

Used format for markup page with post - markdown.

Markdown markup for main page:

<pre><code>

layout: default
title: "Jekyll: static websites generator"

---

</code></pre>

default - is the template name.

##### At last

Let's output posts list with links on the main page, using for + endfor (you can see this hint in index.html)

More details about Jekyll you can always find <a href="http://jekyllrb.com">here</a>.
